debezium/dbz#1462 Create initial Ingres documentation (#7395)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/ingres.adoc

By default, the connector captures changes from all non-system tables. 
To customize snapshot behavior, you can set configuration properties to specify the tables to include or exclude in the snapshot.

After the snapshot completes, the connector begins to emit change events for changes that are committed to tables that are in capture mode.
By default, change events for a particular table go to a Kafka topic that has the same name as the table. 
Applications and services can then consume change event records from the resulting topics.

[NOTE]
====
The connector requires the use of the Ingres Change Streams API for Java, which is available on Maven Central alongside the latest JDBC drivers.
====

[[ingres-overview]]
== Overview

The {prodname} Ingres connector is based on the link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Change_Data_Capture.htm[Ingres Change Data Capture API] that enables Change Data Capture in Ingres. 
The API was introduced in Ingres 12.1, and is available in all subsequent versions of the database.

The database administrator must enable journaling on the Ingres database to capture changes. 

> To enables CDC on the database, you must have `DB_ADMIN` privileges or be the database or instance owner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable CDC on the database, you must have `DB_ADMIN` privileges or be the database or instance owner. 
```

For more information about how to configure CDC on Ingres, see link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Prerequisites_for_Server_Configuration.htm[Prerequisites for server configuration].

{prodname} connectors are tolerant of failures.
As the connector reads and produces change events, it records the log header record from the change stream.
The header record is the position of the change event in the database log.

> If the connector stops for any reason, including communication failures, network problems, or crash, upon restarting it continues reading the change stream where it left off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the connector stops for any reason, including communication failures, network problems, or crashes, after restarting it continues reading the change stream where it left off.
```

1. Establish a connection to the database.

2. Determine which tables are in capture mode and should be included in the snapshot.
   By default, the connector captures the data for all non-system tables.
   After the snapshot completes, the connector continues to stream data for the specified tables.
   If you want the connector to capture data only from specific tables, you can configure the connector to capture the data for a subset of tables or table elements by setting properties such as xref:{context}-property-table-include-list[`table.include.list`] or xref:{context}-property-table-exclude-list[`table.exclude.list`].

3. Obtain a lock on each of the tables in capture mode.
  This lock ensures that no schema changes can occur in those tables until the snapshot completes.
  The level of the lock is determined by the value of the xref:ingres-property-snapshot-isolation-mode[`snapshot.isolation.mode`] connector configuration property.

4. Generate a single transaction on a generated database table.
  Ingres does not support querying the latest transaction record position.

>   Therefore the Debezium connector creates a table in the database, inserts one row then drops the table to generate a "latest" log record that is captured and stored. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Therefore the {prodname} connector creates a table in the database, inserts one row then drops the table to generate a "latest" log record that is captured and stored. 
```

Reviewer: You could also just drop `Debezium/{prodname}` in this instance and just say `the connector.`

  This is the log position where data streaming will start from after the snapshot is complete. 

5. Capture the schema of all tables or all tables that are designated for capture.
  The connector persists schema information in its internal database schema history topic.
  The schema history provides information about the structure that is in effect when a change event occurs. +
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The schema history provides information about the structure that is in effect when a change event occurs. 
+
[NOTE]
```

====
By default, the connector captures the schema of every table in the database that is in capture mode, including tables that are not configured for capture.
If tables are not configured for capture, the initial snapshot captures only their structure; it does not capture any table data.

For more information about why snapshots persist schema information for tables that you did not include in the initial snapshot, see xref:understanding-why-initial-snapshots-capture-the-schema-history-for-all-tables[Understanding why initial snapshots capture the schema for all tables].
====

6. Release any locks obtained in Step 3.
  Other database clients can now write to any previously locked tables.+
+

[CAUTION]
====
The current version of the Ingres connector does not implement table locking.
If the connector runs a snapshot on a table while other client operations are active in the database, snapshot consistency is not guaranteed.

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Other database clients can now write to any previously locked tables.
+
[CAUTION]
====
The current version of the Ingres connector does not implement table locking.
If the connector runs a snapshot on a table while other client operations are active in the database, snapshot consistency is not guaranteed.
====
```

7. At the log position read in Step 4, the connector scans the tables that are designated for capture.
  During the scan, the connector completes the following tasks:

.. Confirms that the table was created before the snapshot began.
  If the table was created after the snapshot began, the connector skips the table.
  After the snapshot is complete, and the connector transitions to streaming, it emits change events for any tables that were created after the snapshot began.

.. Produces a `read` event for each row that is captured from a table.
  All `read` events contain the same Header position, which is the Header position that was obtained in step 4.

.. Emits each `read` event to the Kafka topic for the source table.

.. Releases data table locks, if applicable.

> 8. Record the successful completion of the snapshot in the connector offsets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Records the successful completion of the snapshot in the connector offsets.
```

Author: I think you didn't mean a capital 'S'. Can you change that in here or I can fix it in another commit ?

Reviewer: Updated! Sorry about that!

If the default data type conversions do not meet your needs, you can {link-prefix}:{link-custom-converters}#custom-converters[create a custom converter] for the connector.

[[ingres-basic-types]]
=== Basic types

The following table describes how the connector maps each Ingres data type to a _literal type_ and a _semantic type_ in event fields.

literal type:: Describes how the value is literally represented using the following Kafka Connect schema types: `INT8`, `INT16`, `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `ARRAY`, `MAP`, and `STRUCT`.

semantic type:: Describes how the Kafka Connect schema captures the meaning of the source field by assigning the name of the corresponding Kafka Connect schema to the field.

.Mappings for Ingres basic data types
[cols="25%a,20%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Ingres data type
|Literal type (schema type)
|Semantic type (schema name) and Notes

|`ANSIDATE`
|`INT64`
|n/a

|`BLOB`
|`BYTES`
|n/a

|`BOOLEAN`
|`BOOLEAN`
|n/a

|`BYTE(N)`
|`BYTES`
|n/a

|`C[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`CHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`CLOB`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`DATE`
|`INT32`
|`io.debezium.time.Date` +

>  +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`io.debezium.time.Date` 
 
```

A date without timezone information

|`DATETIME`
|`INT64`
|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` +

>  +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` 
 
```

A timestamp without timezone information

|`DECIMAL`
|`BYTES`
|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal`

|`DOUBLE`
|`FLOAT64`
|n/a

|`FLOAT`
|`FLOAT64`
|n/a

|`INGRESDATE`
|`STRING`
|INGRESDATE can represent a date/time or an interval.
Users must handle the conversion of the string to a date/time or interval value in their application.

|`INTEGER`
|`INT32`
|n/a

|`IPV4`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`IPV6`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`LVARCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`NCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`NVARCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`NUMERIC`
|`BYTES`
|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal`

|`REAL`
|`FLOAT32`
|n/a

|`SERIAL`
|`INT32`
|n/a

|`SMALLINT`
|`INT16`
|n/a

|`SMALLFLOAT`
|`FLOAT32`
|n/a

|`TIME[(N)]`
|`INT64`
| Time without timezone information

|`TIME[(N)] WITH [LOCAL] TIME ZONE`
|`INT64`
| Time with timezone information

|`TIMESTAMP[(N)]`
|`INT64`
| Timestamp without timezone information

|`TIMESTAMP[(N)] WITH [LOCAL] TIME ZONE`

> |?

Reviewer: Not sure what the `?` represents.

Author: I think I had that as placeholder and forgot to replace it with INT64 like the other timestamp.

| Timestamp with timezone information

|`TEXT`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`UUID`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`VARBYTE(N)`
|`BYTES`
|n/a

|`VARCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|===

[[setting-up-ingres]]
== Setting up Ingres

To prepare an Ingres database to work with {prodname}, ensure that the user account that the connector uses to connect to the database has the necessary permissions, and enable journaling on the database.

[[ingres-permissions]]
=== Setting up permissions

Users connecting to the server to utilize CDC must have `DB_ADMIN` privileges or be the database or instance owner.

> See link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Prerequisites_for_Server_Configuration.htm[Prerequisites for server configuration] for more information about setting up for CDC with Ingres.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about setting up for CDC with Ingres, see link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Prerequisites_for_Server_Configuration.htm[Prerequisites for server configuration].
```

  "config": {
    "connector.class": "io.debezium.connector.ingres.IngresConnector",
    "database.hostname": "192.168.99.100",
    "database.port": "20367",
    "database.user": "ingres",
    "database.password": "ingres",
    "database.dbname": "testdatabase",
    "topic.prefix": "fullfillment",
    "table.include.list": "testdatabase.testschema.customers",
    "schema.history.internal.kafka.bootstrap.servers": "kafka:9092",
    "schema.history.internal.kafka.topic": "schemahistory.fullfillment"
  }
}
----

The following list describes the fields in the preceding configuration example:

`name`::
Specifies the name of the connector as registered with the Kafka Connect service.

`connector.class`::
Specifies the name of the {prodname} connector class.

`database.hostname`::
Specifies the address of the Ingres instance.

`database.port`::
Specifies the port number of the Ingres instance.

`database.user`::
Specifies the name of the Ingres user.

`database.password`::
Specifies the password for the Ingres user.

`database.dbname`::
Specifies the name of the database to capture changes from.

`topic.prefix`::
Specifies the logical name of the Ingres instance or cluster.

> This name forms a namespace that is used in the names of all Kafka topics to which the connector writes, the Kafka Connect schema names, and the namespaces of the corresponding Avro schema when the {link-prefix}:{link-avro-serialization}[Avro Connector] is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This name forms a namespace that is used in the names of all Kafka topics to which the connector writes, the Kafka Connect schema names, and the namespaces of the corresponding Avro schema when the {link-prefix}:{link-avro-serialization}#avro-serialization[Avro Connector] is used.
```
The existing formatting should work fine in the community edition of the docs. The proposed change is forward-looking and ensures that links can be converted for use in the downstream product docs should that ever become a reality.

|[[ingres-property-signal-data-collection]]<<ingres-property-signal-data-collection, `+signal.data.collection+`>>
|No default
| Fully-qualified name of the data collection that is used to send {link-prefix}:{link-signalling}#debezium-signaling-enabling-source-signaling-channel[signals] to the connector.
The collection name is case-sensitive.

Use the following format to specify the collection name:

`_<databaseName>_._<schemaName>_._<tableName>_`

|[[ingres-property-signal-enabled-channels]]<<ingres-property-signal-enabled-channels, `+signal.enabled.channels+`>>
|`source`
|List of the signaling channel names that are enabled for the connector.
By default, the following channels are available:

* `source`
* `kafka`
* `file`
* `jmx`

Optionally, you can also implement a {link-prefix}:{link-signalling}#debezium-signaling-enabling-custom-signaling-channel[custom signaling channel].

|[[ingres-property-notification-enabled-channels]]<<ingres-property-notification-enabled-channels, `+notification.enabled.channels+`>>
|No default
| List of the notification channel names that are enabled for the connector.
By default, the following channels are available:

* `sink`
* `log`
* `jmx`

> 
> Optionally, you can also implement a {link-prefix}:{link-notification}#debezium-notification-custom-channel[custom notification channel].
> |[[ingres-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size]]<<ingres-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size, `+incremental.snapshot.chunk.size+`>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can also implement a {link-prefix}:{link-notification}#debezium-notification-custom-channel[custom notification channel].

|[[ingres-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size]]<<ingres-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size, `+incremental.snapshot.chunk.size+`>>
```
Insert a blank line between table rows to improve readability of the source.

|The name of the `TopicNamingStrategy` class that the connector uses to construct the topic names for data change, schema change, transaction, heartbeat, and other types of events.

|[[ingres-property-topic-delimiter]]<<ingres-property-topic-delimiter, `topic.delimiter`>>
|`.`
|Specifies the delimiter that the connector uses to construct topic names.

|[[ingres-property-topic-cache-size]]<<ingres-property-topic-cache-size, `topic.cache.size`>>
|`10000`
|The cache size allocated for storing topic names in a bounded concurrent hash map.
This cache helps to determine the topic name that corresponds to a given data collection.

|[[ingres-property-topic-heartbeat-prefix]]<<ingres-property-topic-heartbeat-prefix, `+topic.heartbeat.prefix+`>>
|`__debezium-heartbeat`
|Specifies a string that the connector appends to the name of the topic to which it sends heartbeat messages.
The resulting topic name has the following pattern:

`_topic.heartbeat.prefix_._topic.prefix_`

For example, if the topic prefix is `fulfillment`, based on the default value of the prefix, the connector assigns the following name to the heartbeat topic : `__debezium-heartbeat.fulfillment`. +
 +

> This property is ignored if `topic.heartbeat.name` is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the topic prefix is `fulfillment`, based on the default value of the prefix, the connector assigns the following name to the heartbeat topic : `__debezium-heartbeat.fulfillment`. 

This property is ignored if `topic.heartbeat.name` is set.
```

|[[ingres-property-topic-heartbeat-name]]<<ingres-property-topic-heartbeat-name, `+topic.heartbeat.name+`>>
|_empty_
|Specifies an explicit, full name for the topic to which the connector sends heartbeat messages, overriding the prefix-based naming derived from `topic.heartbeat.prefix` and `topic.prefix`. +
 +
When set, all heartbeat messages are routed to this exact topic name, regardless of the connector's `topic.prefix`. +
This is useful when running multiple connectors and you want to consolidate heartbeat events into a single shared topic, avoiding the creation of a large number of single-partition heartbeat topics. +
 +
For example, setting this to `debezium-heartbeat` routes all heartbeat messages to a topic named `debezium-heartbeat`. +
 +

> If this property is empty or unset, the connector falls back to the default behavior: _topic.heartbeat.prefix_._topic.prefix_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies an explicit, full name for the topic to which the connector sends heartbeat messages, overriding the prefix-based naming derived from `topic.heartbeat.prefix` and `topic.prefix`. 

When set, all heartbeat messages are routed to this exact topic name, regardless of the connector's `topic.prefix`.

This is useful when running multiple connectors and you want to consolidate heartbeat events into a single shared topic, avoiding the creation of a large number of single-partition heartbeat topics. 

For example, setting this to `debezium-heartbeat` routes all heartbeat messages to a topic named `debezium-heartbeat`. 

If this property is empty or unset, the connector falls back to the default behavior: _topic.heartbeat.prefix_._topic.prefix_.
```

|[[ingres-property-database-query-timeout-ms]]<<ingres-property-database-query-timeout-ms, `database.query.timeout.ms`>>
|`600000` (10 minutes)
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits for a query to complete.
Set the value to `0` (zero) to remove the timeout limit.

|[[ingres-property-extended-headers-enabled]]<<ingres-property-extended-headers-enabled, `extended.headers.enabled`>>
|true
|This property specifies whether {prodname} adds context headers with the prefix `__debezium.context.` to the messages that it emits.

These headers are required by the OpenLineage integration and provide metadata that enables downstream processing systems to track and identify the sources of change events.

The property adds following headers:

`__debezium.context.connectorLogicalName`:: The logical name of the {prodname} connector.
`__debezium.context.taskId`:: The unique identifier of the connector task.
`__debezium.context.connectorName`::  The name of the {prodname} connector.

|===

[id="debezium-ingres-connector-database-history-configuration-properties"]
==== {prodname} Ingres connector database schema history configuration properties

> include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-configuration-database-history-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer: The `ref-connector-configuration-database-history-properties.adoc` file that's called by the `include` directive on L1271 contains another include directive that's used to insert the default value for the `schema.history.internal.store.only.captured.databases.ddl` property. The value can be `true` or `false`, depending on the connector. To ensure that the include directive can be resolved, a target file, `frag-ingres-props-snippets.adoc` must exist. 
If  the Ingres connector supports this property, create this file in `/partials/modules/snippets` directory and create the following tagged region within it: `schema-hist-prop-store-only-cap-db-ddl-boolean`. See the other `frag*` files in the directory for formatting guidance.

Author: I see the snippets. I'll add the frag adoc for Ingres. Do I also need a frag-signaling-fq-table page for Ingres as well?

Reviewer: > I see the snippets. I'll add the frag adoc for Ingres. Do I also need a frag-signaling-fq-table page for Ingres as well?

Oh, that's a good question. I was aware of the issue for the schema history property, because it came up when testing changes for another new connector.
I'd have to do a local build and see whether it returns an error about a missing target file. Unfortunately, I have to leave early today, so I can't do it just now. FWIW, the other connector didn't return an error related to a missing signaling target.

Reviewer: > > I see the snippets. I'll add the frag adoc for Ingres. Do I also need a frag-signaling-fq-table page for Ingres as well?
> 
> Oh, that's a good question. I was aware of the issue for the schema history property, because it came up when testing changes for another new connector. I'd have to do a local build and see whether it returns an error about a missing target file. Unfortunately, I have to leave early today, so I can't do it just now. FWIW, the other connector didn't return an error related to a missing signaling target.

@brian-hughes I took a look at the content today and I confirmed that the signaling table fragment that you asked about is only used in the context of the discussion around incremental snapshots, which you don't currently cover in the Ingres connector documentation. As an aside, the properties table includes several references to incremental snapshots. 
If the connector does not support incremental snapshot, we should omit the the `incremental.snapshot.chunk.size` and `incremental.snapshot.watermarking.strategy` properties from the table, and remove the sentence that mentions incremental snapshots from the description for `snapshot.include.collection.list` property.

Author: @roldanbob Looks like I should add documentation around incremental snapshots. I went back through and we have mostly passing tests in this area. I will look at other connectors (if you have a good example of one) and replicate how they include incremental snapshot documentation

Reviewer: > @roldanbob Looks like I should add documentation around incremental snapshots. I went back through and we have mostly passing tests in this area. I will look at other connectors (if you have a good example of one) and replicate how they include incremental snapshot documentation

Ok, @brian-hughes Thanks, I'll look for that update. Regarding good examples, the incremental snapshot documentation should be roughly the same for all of the connectors. It was added for to the Db2, MongoDB, MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server connectors at the same time via [DBZ-3457](https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/DBZ-3457). Content for later connectors would have been derived from those original versions.

By default, initial snapshots are designed to capture schema information for every table that is present in the database, not only from tables that are designated for capture.
Connectors require that the table's schema is present in the schema history topic before they can capture a table.
By enabling the initial snapshot to capture schema data for tables that are not part of the original capture set, {prodname} prepares the connector to readily capture event data from these tables should that later become necessary.
If the initial snapshot does not capture a table's schema, you must add the schema to the history topic before the connector can capture data from the table.

In some cases, you might want to limit schema capture in the initial snapshot.
This can be useful when you want to reduce the time required to complete a snapshot.
Or when {prodname} connects to the database instance through a user account that has access to multiple logical databases, but you want the connector to capture changes only from tables in a specific logic database.

> include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/con-connector-incremental-snapshot.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="debezium-ingres-incremental-snapshots"]
=== Incremental snapshots

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/con-connector-incremental-snapshot.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
```
Insert the missing heading before the `include` directive.

Also, you've omitted the section that discusses how to capture data from tables that were not part of the initial snapshot, as well as the section  that introduces the concept of ad hoc snapshots. Should these also be included? (See [db2.adoc](https://github.com/debezium/debezium/blob/main/documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/db2.adoc?plain=1#L328-L456)

Author: @roldanbob  -- Fixed and added the missing sections.

The event structure depends on the table that was changed.

// Type: reference
// ModuleID: how-debezium-ingres-connectors-map-data-types
// Title: How {prodname} Ingres connectors map data types
[[ingres-data-types]]
== Data type mappings

The Ingres connector represents changes to rows with events that are structured like the table. 
The event contains a field for each column value. How that value is represented in the event depends on the Ingres data type of the column. 
For information about how the connector maps Ingres data types in event fields to literal and semantic types, see xref:ingres-basic-types[Basic types].

If the default data type conversions do not meet your needs, you can {link-prefix}:{link-custom-converters}#custom-converters[create a custom converter] for the connector.

[[ingres-basic-types]]
=== Basic types

The following table describes how the connector maps each Ingres data type to a _literal type_ and a _semantic type_ in event fields.

* _literal type_ describes how the value is literally represented using Kafka Connect schema types: `INT8`, `INT16`, `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `ARRAY`, `MAP`, and `STRUCT`.

> * _semantic type_ describes how the Kafka Connect schema captures the _meaning_ of the field using the name of the Kafka Connect schema for the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table describes how the connector maps each Ingres data type to a _literal type_ and a _semantic type_ in event fields.

literal type:: Describes how the value is literally represented using the following Kafka Connect schema types: `INT8`, `INT16`, `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `ARRAY`, `MAP`, and `STRUCT`.

semantic type:: Describes how the Kafka Connect schema captures the meaning of the source field by assigning the name of the corresponding Kafka Connect schema to the field.
```

// Category: debezium-using

> // Type: assembly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
As noted elsewhere, these and all other annotation comments are artifacts that are required for the documentation productization tooling, and as such they have no current relevance for the Ingres connector content.

[id="debezium-connector-for-ingres"]
= {prodname} connector for Ingres

:context: ingres
:data-collection: table
:database-port: 9088
:mbean-name: {context}
:connector-file: {context}
:connector-class: IngresConnector
:connector-name: Ingres
:include-list-example: public.inventory
:collection-container:  database.schema

ifdef::community[]

:toc:
:toc-placement: macro
:linkattrs:
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

toc::[]

> endif::community[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove conditional delimiters throughout.

> {prodname}'s Ingres connector captures row-level changes in the tables of an Actian Analytics database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {prodname} Ingres connector captures row-level changes in the tables of an Actian Analytics database.
```
Avoid using the possessive form with the product name. I know that multiple instances of this construction are present in the docs, but I'm trying to slowly weed them out.

[CAUTION]
====
The {prodname} connector for Ingres is currently in the Incubating stage of development.
This means that the connector is not yet considered production ready, and is not recommended for use in production environments.
The connector is available for testing and feedback, and is expected to evolve significantly before it reaches the production ready stage.
====

> ifdef::community[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For information about the Actian Database versions that are compatible with this connector, see the link:https://debezium.io/releases/[{prodname} release overview].
endif::community[]

> This connector is strongly inspired by the {prodname} implementation of Ingres, which in turn was inspired by the {prodname} implementation of IBM Db2, and uses the Ingres Change Streams Java client to capture transactional data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This connector is strongly inspired by the {prodname} connector implementation for IBM Db2.
The connector use the Ingres Change Streams Java client to capture transactional data from the database.
```
As written, I think that this statement is misleading, because it makes it sound as though Debezium currently offers an implementation of the Ingres database. I see where the statement is derived from a similar statement in the Db2 connector docs (and likewise, the Informix connector docs), but I think that both of those instances would benefit from rewording, so thanks for pointing that out.  :)

> The Change Data Capture API captures data from databases that have logging enabled and captures transactions from the current logical log. The API processes all transactions sequentially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Change Data Capture API captures data from databases that have logging enabled and captures transactions from the current logical log. 
The API processes all transactions sequentially.
```
By convention, in the Debezium docs, each sentence should be entered on a separate line. This ensures greater readability during reviews and it makes diffs easier to manage after future updates. This was not always the case for some of the older content, but it is a requirement for all new content.

> The first time that a {prodname} Ingres connector connects to an Ingres database, the connector reads a consistent snapshot of the tables for which the connector is configured to capture changes. By default, the connector captures changes from all non-system tables. To customize snapshot behavior, you can set configuration properties to specify the tables to include or exclude in the snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time that a {prodname} Ingres connector connects to an Ingres database, the connector reads a consistent snapshot of the tables for which the connector is configured to capture changes. 
By default, the connector captures changes from all non-system tables. 
To customize snapshot behavior, you can set configuration properties to specify the tables to include or exclude in the snapshot.
```

After the snapshot completes, the connector begins to emit change events for changes that are committed to tables that are in capture mode.

> By default, change events for a particular table go to a Kafka topic that has the same name as the table. Applications and services can then consume change event records from these topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, change events for a particular table go to a Kafka topic that has the same name as the table. 
Applications and services can then consume change event records from the resulting topics.
```

[NOTE]
====
The connector requires the use of the Ingres Change Streams API for Java, which is available on Maven Central alongside the latest JDBC drivers.
====

// Type: concept
// Title: Overview of {prodname} Ingres connector

> // ModuleID: overview-of-debezium-ingres-connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[[ingres-overview]]
== Overview

> The {prodname} Ingres connector is based on the link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Change_Data_Capture.htm[Ingres Change Data Capture API] that enables Change Data Capture in Ingres. This feature was introduced in Ingres 12.1, and is available in later versions of Ingres.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {prodname} Ingres connector is based on the link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Change_Data_Capture.htm[Ingres Change Data Capture API] that enables Change Data Capture in Ingres. 
The API was introduced in Ingres 12.1, and is available in all subsequent versions of the database.
```

The database administrator must enable journaling on the Ingres database to capture changes. 

> Users connecting to the server to utilize CDC must have `DB_ADMIN` privileges or be the database or instance owner.  See link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Prerequisites_for_Server_Configuration.htm[Prerequisites for server configuration] for more information about setting up for CDC with Ingres.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enables CDC on the database, you must have `DB_ADMIN` privileges or be the database or instance owner. 
For more information about how to configure CDC on Ingres, see link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Prerequisites_for_Server_Configuration.htm[Prerequisites for server configuration].
```

{prodname} connectors are tolerant of failures.
As the connector reads and produces change events, it records the log header record from the change stream.
The header record is the position of the change event in the database log.
If the connector stops for any reason, including communication failures, network problems, or crash, upon restarting it continues reading the change stream where it left off.
For snapshots, if a snapshot was not complete when the connector stopped or restarted, the connector begins a new snapshot.

// Type: assembly
// ModuleID: how-debezium-ingres-connectors-work

> // Title: How {prodname} Ingres connectors work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[[how-the-ingres-connector-works]]
== How the connector works

To optimally configure and run a {prodname} Ingres connector, it is helpful to understand how the connector performs snapshots, streams change events, determines Kafka topic names, and handles schema changes.

// Type: concept
// ModuleID: how-debezium-ingres-connectors-perform-database-snapshots
// Title: How {prodname} Ingres connectors perform database snapshots
[[ingres-snapshots]]
=== Snapshots

Most Ingres database servers are not designed to store the complete history of database changes.
As a result, the {prodname} Ingres connector may not be able to retrieve the entire history of the database from the logs.
To enable the connector to establish a baseline for the current state of the database, the first time that the connector starts, it performs an initial _consistent snapshot_ of the tables that are configured to be captured.
For each change that the snapshot captures, the connector emits a `read` event to the Kafka topic for the captured table.

[[default-workflow-for-performing-an-initial-snapshot]]

> .Default workflow that the {prodname} Ingres connector uses to perform an initial snapshot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Default workflow that the {prodname} Ingres connector uses to perform an initial snapshot
```
Another convention that is not implemented consistently, but we're getting away from using AsciiDoc `title` formatting to create subtitles.

You can customize the way that the connector creates snapshots by changing the value of the `snapshot.mode` property.
If you configure a different snapshot mode, the connector completes the snapshot by using a modified version of this workflow.

1. Establish a connection to the database.

2. Determine which tables are in capture mode and should be included in the snapshot.
   By default, the connector captures the data for all non-system tables.
   After the snapshot completes, the connector continues to stream data for the specified tables.
   If you want the connector to capture data only from specific tables, you can configure the connector to capture the data for a subset of tables or table elements by setting properties such as xref:{context}-property-table-include-list[`table.include.list`] or xref:{context}-property-table-exclude-list[`table.exclude.list`].

3. Obtain a lock on each of the tables in capture mode.
  This lock ensures that no schema changes can occur in those tables until the snapshot completes.
  The level of the lock is determined by the value of the xref:ingres-property-snapshot-isolation-mode[`snapshot.isolation.mode`] connector configuration property.

> 4. Generate a single trasaction on a generated database table. Ingres does not support querying the latest tranasction record position. Therefore the Debezium connector creates a table in the database, inserts one row then drops the table to generate a "latest" log record that is captured and stored. This is the log position where data streaming will start from after the snapshot is complete. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Generate a single trasaction on a generated database table. Ingres does not support querying the latest tranasction record position. 
5. 
Therefore the Debezium connector creates a table in the database, inserts one row then drops the table to generate a "latest" log record that is captured and stored. 
This is the log position where data streaming will start from after the snapshot is complete. 
```

5. Capture the schema of all tables or all tables that are designated for capture.
The connector persists schema information in its internal database schema history topic.
The schema history provides information about the structure that is in effect when a change event occurs. +
+
[NOTE]
====
By default, the connector captures the schema of every table in the database that is in capture mode, including tables that are not configured for capture.
If tables are not configured for capture, the initial snapshot captures only their structure; it does not capture any table data.

For more information about why snapshots persist schema information for tables that you did not include in the initial snapshot, see xref:understanding-why-initial-snapshots-capture-the-schema-history-for-all-tables[Understanding why initial snapshots capture the schema for all tables].
====

6. Release any locks obtained in Step 3.
  Other database clients can now write to any previously locked tables.+
+

[CAUTION]
====

> The current Ingres connector does not have table locking implemented. Consistency on table snapshots is not guarenteed if other database activity is occuring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current version of the Ingres connector does not implement table locking.
If the connector runs a snapshot on a table while other client operations are active in the database, snapshot consistency is not guaranteed.
```

Connectors require that the table's schema is present in the schema history topic before they can capture a table.
By enabling the initial snapshot to capture schema data for tables that are not part of the original capture set, {prodname} prepares the connector to readily capture event data from these tables should that later become necessary.
If the initial snapshot does not capture a table's schema, you must add the schema to the history topic before the connector can capture data from the table.

In some cases, you might want to limit schema capture in the initial snapshot.
This can be useful when you want to reduce the time required to complete a snapshot.
Or when {prodname} connects to the database instance through a user account that has access to multiple logical databases, but you want the connector to capture changes only from tables in a specific logic database.

// Type: assembly
// ModuleID: descriptions-of-debezium-ingres-connector-data-change-events
// Title: Descriptions of {prodname} Ingres connector data change events
[[ingres-events]]
== Data change events

> The {prodname} Ingres connector generates a data change event for each row-level `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, and `TRUNCATE` operation. Each event contains a key and a value. The structure depends on the table that was changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Data change events

The {prodname} Ingres connector generates a data change event record for each row-level `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, and `TRUNCATE` operation. 
Each event contains a key and a value. 
The event structure depends on the table that was changed.
```
Always place a blank line after the topic title. When scanning the AsciiDoc source, the presence of a blank line improves readability by making it easier to distinguish between headings a body text.

// Type: reference
// ModuleID: how-debezium-ingres-connectors-map-data-types
// Title: How {prodname} Ingres connectors map data types
[[ingres-data-types]]

> == Data type mappings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Data type mappings

```

The Ingres connector represents changes to rows with events that are structured like the table. The event contains a field for each column value. How that value is represented in the event depends on the Ingres data type of the column. The following sections describe how the connector maps Ingres data types to a literal type and a semantic type in event fields.

> * xref:ingres-basic-types[Basic types]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ingres connector represents changes to rows with events that are structured like the table. 
The event contains a field for each column value. How that value is represented in the event depends on the Ingres data type of the column. 
For information about how the connector maps Ingres data types in event fields to literal and semantic types, see xref:ingres-basic-types[Basic types].
```
Because we only have one data type, the unordered list is unnecessary. incorporate the link into the paragraph.

|`DATETIME`
|`INT64`
|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` +
 +
A timestamp without timezone information

|`DECIMAL`
|`BYTES`
|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal`

|`DOUBLE`
|`FLOAT64`
|n/a

|`FLOAT`
|`FLOAT64`
|n/a

|`INGRESDATE`
|`INT64`
|n/a

|`INTEGER`
|`INT32`
|n/a

|`IPV4`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`IPV6`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`LVARCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`NCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`NVARCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`NUMERIC`
|`BYTES`
|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal`

|`REAL`
|`FLOAT32`
|n/a

|`SERIAL`
|`INT32`
|n/a

|`SMALLINT`
|`INT16`
|n/a

|`SMALLFLOAT`
|`FLOAT32`
|n/a

|`TIME[(N)]`
|`INT64`
| Time without timezone information

|`TIME[(N)] WITH [LOCAL] TIME ZONE`
|`INT64`
| Time with timezone information

|`TIMESTAMP[(N)]`
|`INT64`
| Timestamp without timezone information

|`TIMESTAMP[(N)] WITH [LOCAL] TIME ZONE`
|?
| Timestamp with timezone information

|`TEXT`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`UUID`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|`VARBYTE(N)`
|`BYTES`
|n/a

|`VARCHAR[(N)]`
|`STRING`
|n/a

|===

// Type: assembly
// ModuleID: setting-up-ingres-to-run-a-debezium-connector
// Title: Setting up Ingres to run a {prodname} connector
[[setting-up-ingres]]
== Setting up Ingres

> To set up an Ingres database to run a {prodname} connector, you must enable journaling on the database and ensure that the user account that the connector uses to connect to the database has the necessary permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare an Ingres database to work with {prodname}, ensure that the user account that the connector uses to connect to the database has the necessary permissions, and enable journaling on the database.
```
The listing order for these prerequisite tasks should follows the same order as the subsequent topics.

// ModuleID: setting-up-ingres-permissions-required-by-debezium-connectors
// Title: Setting up Ingres permissions for the {prodname} connector
[[ingres-permissions]]
=== Setting up permissions

Users connecting to the server to utilize CDC must have `DB_ADMIN` privileges or be the database or instance owner.  See link:https://docs.actian.com/actianingres/12.1/index.html#page/DatabaseAdmin/Prerequisites_for_Server_Configuration.htm[Prerequisites for server configuration] for more information about setting up for CDC with Ingres.

// Type: procedure
// ModuleID: setting-up-ingres-journaling-required-by-debezium-connectors
// Title: Setting up Ingres journaling for the {prodname} connector
[[ingres-journaling]]
=== Setting up journaling

Each database that the connector captures data from must have journaling enabled to capture changes. To enable journaling on an Ingres database, use the `ckpdb` utility to set the `journaling` option to `on` for the database. For example, to enable journaling for a database, run the following command:

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
----
> ckpdb +j __<name>
----

// Type: assembly
// ModuleID: deployment-of-debezium-ingres-connectors

> // Title: Deployment of {prodname} Ingres connectors

Reviewer 2: @roldanbob, also do you think it would be easier in the long-term for downstream to drop these or would you prefer keeping them?

Author: Any resolution for if I should keep the product blocks? Thanks!

Reviewer: Consistent with the approach for the product vs. community conditionals, I'd suggest removing all of the annotation comments.

* Ingres is installed and is xref:setting-up-ingres[set up to use the {prodname} connector].

.Procedure

. Download the {prodname} link:https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-ingres/{debezium-version}/debezium-connector-ingres-{debezium-version}-plugin.tar.gz[Ingres connector plug-in archive].
. Extract the files into your Kafka Connect environment.
. Add the directory with the JAR files to {link-kafka-docs}/#connectconfigs[Kafka Connect's `plugin.path`].
. Restart your Kafka Connect process to pick up the new JAR files.

You can also xref:operations/openshift.adoc[run {prodname} on Kubernetes and OpenShift].

[IMPORTANT]
====
The {prodname} container images that you obtain from `quay.io` do not undergo rigorous testing or security analysis, and are provided for testing and evaluation purposes only.
These images are not intended for use in production environments.
To mitigate risk in production deployments, deploy only containers that are actively maintained by trusted vendors, and thoroughly tested for potential vulnerabilities.
====

endif::community[]

> ifdef::product[]

Reviewer 2: @roldanbob, do you think we should consider dropping all the "product" blocks in the Ingres docs and leave the "community" ones without the `ifdefs` for now?

Reviewer: Yes, unless we think that productization is imminent, I'd remove conditionalization.

* xref:descriptions-of-debezium-ingres-connector-configuration-properties[Ingres connector configuration properties]

// Type: procedure
[id="obtaining-the-ingres-jdbc-driver"]
=== Obtaining the Ingres JDBC driver

Due to licensing requirements, the Ingres JDBC driver file that {prodname} requires to connect to an Ingres database is not included in the {prodname} Ingres connector archive.
The driver is available for download from Maven Central.
To retrieve the driver, add the Maven Central location for the driver to `builds.plugins.artifact.url` in the `KafkaConnect` custom resource as shown in xref:using-streams-to-deploy-debezium-ingres-connectors[].

// Type: procedure
[id="using-streams-to-deploy-debezium-ingres-connectors"]
=== Using {StreamsName} to deploy a {prodname} Ingres connector

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/proc-using-streams-to-deploy-a-debezium-db2-ifx-ora-pg-connector.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Type: procedure
[id="verifying-that-the-debezium-ingres-connector-is-running"]
=== Verifying that the {prodname} Ingres connector is running

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/proc-verifying-the-connector-deployment.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

> endif::product[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
